Okay, cool. So let's start with the first part of the first scenario.
So in the first part we are going to talk about the projects so, as you may know, projects for like, 40% of your final mark, we have 2 components in the projects a presentation that has 15% out of that 40% and we also have a report that forms the other 25% of your mark okay.
so in this project you're supposed to creates a.
You're supposed to create the survey. Okay? And a recent topic, we will give you a list of a list of topics that we can choose from.
But the aim is to learn how to write a survey.
Okay, so surveys are written. So you know, to summarize the latest advances in.
So we are going to familiarize yourself with the surveys, and how to write a survey, whether they could characteristics.
Obviously, that's you know, expecting to see that in your surveys.
And so on. Okay.
So, first of all, you have groups. And these projects will be done in groups of 4 students.
Okay. So you are responsible for forming your groups. So previously, we were, you know, signing people to the groups.
But we found out, like, based on the experience, that if he lets the students to choose, like, there are team members that would be, you know, more productive.
So, yeah, so there are some minus stuffs. Since this is an intensive semester of only 4 teaching weeks.
So we said some. You know, milestones that you need to meet before.
Submitting the your group information. By end of week, one.
Okay. So by end of week one, you need to first find your group members, and then also join a group in the canvas.
Okay, so all of you can join a group in Congress, and once you have, you also need to pick it's topic for your project and at the end of week one, you need to submit all of this information, which are, you know who are which is this are your group.
What is your group? Id, and what type you have chosen?
You need to submit that. By the end of week, one.
Okay. But if you haven't found, like your team members, or you haven't formed a group on canvas, here's a link that shows you how to do it.
I'm just going to copy and paste it in the chat.
Please feel free to have a look. If you have a look.
If everyone please, open the link, and I just posted in the chat.
So if you open the link, you see, like a you know, step by step, tutorial on how to for a group on campus, or how to join a group on Congress.
So that's very, you know, helpful for those of you haven't, you know, create a big group.
Yeah, okay.
Now it's just jumping into the next slide. Okay, so about the project topics.
So we are suggesting 2 topics that you can choose from.
One of them is crowd, source and collaborative data management systems, and the other one is self-driving devices.
So you can do some quick, maybe search to know more about each of these topics, and then you can, you know, reach an agreement with being your group members which start to go ahead with.
But we expect by second of July end of Big One to hear from you about what topics you have chosen.
So the first assignments that you need to submit is your group topic, submission.
So you need to submit a page. Okay, in which you have.
That's your group. The name and student members, along with the topic.
Okay.
So!
Can you?
Okay, so.
Okay. Sorry. I think, I have been disconnected. Sorry for that.
So let me share my screen back again.
Can you all hear me now? Hey? I have some reactions from the group.
Yes.
Thank you much.
Okay, so, yeah, so here are the 2 subjects, the 2 topics that you can choose for your project.
So yeah, so crowd source and collaborative data management systems.
And also the self driving. So we expect to see and to hear from you by end of the first speak.
So you need to submit. A you know the first assignment is your group information.
So you need to go to canvass assignments to A, and then you need to submit these.
The following information, your book, Id, that you'll you know you will receive a group Id as soon as you join to a group, or you create a group on campus that I just you know.
I added the link obviously the chat. I'm just adding it again.
For those of you who missed it. Please follow these steps to create a Google joining group on campus.
But as you have it, you will be assigned with the group Id, and then you can use that id in your submission, and also you need to specify the topic.
Your choice. Just be aware that you may resubmit that before the deadline you may resubmit your group information.
If you change your mind about the topic. That you're Tuesday.
But no later than the deadline. You can change your topic so as soon as the deadline is passed.
Your. I'm talking. He is finalized, and you cannot change that anymore. Okay.
Cool. So now let's talk about how to actually prepare for the survey, and how to, you know.
Gather the information, the papers that you need to prepare and to prepare you record. Okay?
So research in general is more about, you know, understanding the directions and knowing you know the important areas, the keywords that can help you with, you know, finding the most relevant research.
Okay. So in order to, you know, probably the least of you know, directions on keywords that can help you find the most significant works in your area.
Better. So we suggest that you start to familiarize yourself with the topic of your choice.
By, you know, starting to reading some less formal articles from sources such as Wikipedia, such as you know, magazines and similar articles, web pages, websites, such as towards zon signs, such as medium.
You know all of these, you know, informal sources of knowledge can help you to get a high level idea of what your topic is.
What are the you know, common approaches, whether the you know, the challenges there and then that can help you to, you know, refund the directions or the keywords that you have.
And then, yeah, as I said, so rich is all about knowing what are the current directions, what are the trends in a given topic?
And you can start from there, and then you can go one step deeper, jumping into more formal, more academic and scientific.
Type of writing and research by doing some search on Google's caller for similar school research and genes, you you know, to get some more.
You know, scientific, you know research. And then we'll talk more about how to.
You know. Categorize things. How to, you know, identify between what is significant, what is not significant.
But one day to, you know, identify between the significant and non-significant work is based on the venue that that work or that research has been published in right.
So here's at least still our venues. I'm again copying and pasting this into the chat here's a list of top venues so be be mindful of a number of points.
The first point is that you need to cover a minimum of like 1015.
Significant that research in your survey. Okay, so be mindful of the quantity you should not come building like 12, or, you know, 10 references and the references should be like quality differences should not be just.
You know some, some references that we can easily find by typing a keyboard in the blue of a scholar, and this listing the 5 for the 10, you know, there's results.
So you need to do some research on that. So we're asking from you how you've done your research, how you have found your papers.
But one very to.
One way to identify, like new papers is based on the venue.
Okay. So once you have found, like, what directions you need to follow, or whether the keywords that represent the chance in a given research, so you can then use the venue name along with that keyword along with the year to search for you know the most recent and most significant work that have
been published in the top 10 years. Yeah. And the second thing.
So the first thing was quantity that you need to be aware of, so don't I'm below level level, 10 like articles.
Cover at least 12 options in your Sarah, and also bmark of the quality.
Okay. So you should have at least 4 5, hey? Papers from these top venues, and be also mindful of the recency of the work.
Okay. So you also need to have 3, 4 works that are post 2,020, so 2,021, 2,022, 2,023.
Okay, so these 3. And yeah, once you have it. So then you can be more relaxed.
Okay. So I have covered the quantity and the quality, and also the recency.
All of them are covered in my references. Okay.
So the next thing that I wanted to highlight and wanted to talk about was group dynamics.
Okay. So again, this is an intensive and compact.
So, and you know if you don't start from today, there will be a lot of pressure on like you and on all of the members of the team, and then, under high pressure, you know, you can end up in situations where you know, the book is not being divide it or distribute it evenly between the team
members, so you know, be mindful of this awareness in your group dynamics.
So always try to even need to do the board myself, and to do that.
So you probably need to be in constant communication with your team members in order to do that.
So you can pick a communication channel. You know, emails are very slow, so you can see communication channel like a, you know, Microsoft teams or slack or Whatsapp, or you know, any other channel that you feel more comfortable with and you need to set some milestones for your team right so the
first model that we have set for you is like the group information that you need to submit by the end of the first week.
But you can also call with some milestones, some internal milestones for your team. Okay?
So, for instance, by end of week 2, we should have finished.
You know, all the research, we should have finalized the list of the papers that we are going to cover in our report, and by end of we we should have, like all the summaries we should have read all the papers, preparing the summaries, have some writing, and then, in v 4 you can just put together.
all the notes and all the summaries together to create the code. Okay.
So, some milestones like this, and help you to. You know.
Stay on track, and you know it can also help you to, you know, monitor, what's going on in your group, and in order to stay fair with how you distribute the between yourself.
So we suggest that we set the that changes every week.
So you, each person, can be leader for a week, and then later with the book says, on milestone, and then at the end of the week, we will check like, I said, it would be reached a milestone, or are there some outstanding task?
And so, yeah, and then, based on our like experience from previous, there is some.
There's something new to like to report this semester, so you'll have his group reflection, and also individual reflection in the record.
Okay. So in the group perfection, you need to explain how you have found your references.
So again, research is about finding the directions, understanding the trans.
Being able to identify significant from insignificant.
And we want to know how you could learn and what you have learned throughout like the semester about.
You know the the ability to do some research. Okay? So you need to explain in half a page how you have found your references.
So, for instance, and there should be some justifications behind choosing the references.
So you cannot just say, Okay, so indeed I need. Hmm some keyword search.
And Google's caller, and then I found this picture, and that's it right.
You need to justify that. Okay. So after probably identifying after reading some, you know, articles in towards those science and medium, I, we found that this should be the trend, or this should be the you know the directions that you know the hot directions in this area, and then they followed
like these scientific papers. They found that okay, so these groups from this university this year, working on this topic.
And then events and follow their research that are published in top venues, and these are, like the list of papers right?
So this is like a you know, logical, passive finding the best papers and shouldn't be just like a it says that takes 5 min right?
It should be a journey it should be, you know, past. Then you start from somewhere at your end, somewhere, and there's some justifications.
Make some decisions based on some, you know, inputs based on some.
And you know, reasoning, and you need to bring all that in the Google fiction thing.
And then there will be also individual reflection section in which you explain in 200 words for each member of the group what was the contribution of that person?
Okay, so which references are you responsible for finding which parts of the record are responsible for writing which parts of the presentation was your job, so that you know we can mark independently.
Yeah, with more accuracy and with more fairness.
Cool now. You can find your team members. Those from the add discussions in Congress, but you can also find your team members today.
And here in today's workshop. So you assign some 10 min a day.
Are you so that we can go around and talk with your friends with the other students in the room and see if that if they haven't, you know, take the group. Number.
Maybe you can formally group together and then, if you have formed a group, or if you already have a group, then you can create a room.
Okay and claim breakout room, and all the members of your team can join in.
And you can talk about like with planning. You can talk about the topics or any you know, any discussion internal, especially that you think you can just talk about that one.
Otherwise, you can just spend some time. Go around the room if you know if whether your group has already 3 numbers, you're searching for one more, maybe you can.
You know, express your interest, you know, for getting a member, or if you are looking for joining the group, you can express your interest for joining group and then go and meet the people, talk with them.
See if you want to join their groups, and so on.
And then, once you have created your Google, if you haven't already sign that up in Congress, so you can use this phone to sign your if you have a group that's like your team members are in other tutorials.
So then I suggest that you go ahead and download the project.
Tip, file and go ahead and try to review the file, and also especially the the marketing group, or, okay, that you know, highlights, how you report and how your presentation will be mine.
So, yeah, so please use this 10 min wisely.
And yeah, I'm trying to, you know, forming book, or make yourself more familiar with that.
Will be the you know the project, the rubric, the market cool.
So we will have the spot these 10 min from now, so it will join back again in 3 53.
Okay, so you can start.
Yeah, approaching people sending your expression of interest, and so on.
And I will also open the breakout rooms. So for those of you who have already formed your groups, these claim that group in the main chat before.
So let's say that we are going to claim, for instance, Group, we're going to claim a rule number.
Let's say 11, and then all of you can join. All of your group members can join so they can talk with your.
Okay, so we'll talk with you in 10 min.
Okay, welcome back everyone. So let's continue with this tutorial.
So next, we are going to talk about how to choose the right set of papers.
Okay, so you can start with an initial set of keyboards.
Okay. So the initial set of keyboard you can get from some informal reading that you have from, you know, different websites or, you know, non scientific articles.
And then you can also use savings. Okay, so other savings in this area, they can help you a lot in understanding the topic.
And sending the trends and directions, but they cannot, you know, help you as the main source.
Okay, so you cannot refer back to your to the service as the main reference. Okay?
So the main reference of your survey should be scientific papers.
They shouldn't be other savings. Okay, but they can save you as a good example of how to alright, to celebrate how to cook things together.
To, you know, compose a survey. Okay? So the next thing is so after you had some idea about the directions and keywords from informal reading, and then more meeting that you do with surveys.
Then you have, you know, some refined keyboards.
Okay, that you can use those refined keywords.
We search this caller to, you know. Get a list of you know papers that you think are more relevant.
Okay, so you can again choose the papers from the top.
Then use, and first of all, you know, you can judge, based on the title.
But if it's hyphen's not helping that much, then the next step would be reading abstract and judge, based on the abstract.
Okay, so ideally you should. You know, read the title of around 100 Pickers.
Maybe pick 60 of them. The titles that are more relevant than out of those 60 we go and read all the abstract of those 60 papers, and then half of that again, more than half around 35.
It will pick, based on the abstract and title as being more relevant, and then from that 75, you go and read, oh, sorry you go and read like these 35 in more videos and then I'll go that 35 you pick around 20 as your final you know setup papers
that you're going to cover new report. Okay? So and you only need to.
You know. So try to lease the top. Papers. The most significant research.
Okay. Another way, you know, together with, you know, the refined keywords that you have, and also based on the venues.
Another way is based on the motors. So if you are identified, but since the key approaches the in, you know certain field, then you can go and check.
Okay, so who was the inventor of these approach? And what other papers they had there?
Maybe you can site their papers inside the recent papers, so you can also find, you know, significant payers, significant goal based on theters.
Cool now more about the report, now so you know your survey is not just about summarizing the status for listing.
You should also be able to categorize the approaches that you find in those papers, and be able to compare and keep it.
It was a process. Okay? So in fact, comparison and critical analysis is the core of these surveys.
So we are expecting to see a lot of comparison.
Of the approaches that you are, you know, introducing in their survey so it's not just about just listing them and passing.
You also need to compare. And you know you are not expected to learn every detail in the papers that you're covering, or you know perfectly.
You know, describe everything within those papers. So this survey is more about.
Understanding, the directions, the ideas of the papers that you're covering, and being able to classify those approaches.
Okay. And you can show that. Okay. So you know, a good categoryization of the board.
And you can show that in the sections of your report the sessions of your presentation.
So. For instance, if you have identified, for instance, 5 different approaches to the you know the topic oh, the problem with you covering.
So you can put them as sub sections or sections in your report, so that you know that shows that.
Okay, so this guy, this thing. Actually, I understand what's going on, whether main approaches.
And they, you know, set a separate section for it, and then they cover everything between the audiences and everything related to that approach.
In that section. Okay.
And then here goes the record structure. So this is the suggested general template.
But we can customize it as you like, so you should have.
The abstract and the title page didn't have the introduction.
You should have related more details. Then comes the comparison of the approaches.
And you will have the conclusions, and then the group and the visual reflection, and then finally, you will have the reference.
Okay. But so under these related work details, you know, you can rename the sections as you are, and you can add some subsections to each of these sections.
And again, that those subsections can reflect the categorization that you have already made.
You know, in the books you have find. Yeah?
And then more about the presentation rationale and the structure.
Of the presentation. So, first of all presentations is going to be via zoom, due to the dual delivery nature of this subject, and so the group and individual reflections needs not to be covered in the presentation.
You will have 25 min for your presentation and we suggest that you follow the same structure as a report in your presentation.
So about, you know. Quantity wise. You will need about 14 to 18 papers to probably your presentation, and then the presentation file needs to be submitted to canvas, same as the book information that was assignment a so assignment b it will be your presentation file that you need to
submit. And yeah, so now we are going to briefly touch some of the tips about presentation.
But yeah, as one of your friends also asked, so if you're going to forward these slides into the canvas, at the end of this week, so you can go and check like these are slides, and the presentation part of the first part, especially so we don't have
time to cover like all of these presentation tips.
So we're going. We are going to just touch some of these concepts beautifully, because we are going to wrap up by for maybe 4, 10 will wrap a 44, 10.
Then it will take a 10 min break. Then we will see the next the hardest material. At 4, 20.
Okay, we will go for another 15 min, and then another thing that's great.
And then the third part. Okay. So the presentation. 3 main things are the organization of the smallness.
What type of visual aid you're using. And also the delivery in the style of the presentation.
Okay, so you need to be we are about the purpose of guitar mostly, and also stay on.
You know, you know. Stay away from very technical terms.
For technical, you know, work. So try to stay, you know, in a language that is understandable for the general audience.
Although the markers and the audience of your your presentations are computer signed here.
But it's better to, you know. You know, deep prepared for a general.
It's good to start with a both, you know.
Motivation. And then, you know, present some roadmap so that the audience will know where you're going in your presentation.
What you're covering. And then also, yeah should be, you know, free of technical abbreviations.
Or minimize the technical obligations that you're going to.
Hello! Then another. You know main points here is that do not copy 4 sentences from your report into your presentation.
Okay. So it's always ideal.
If you you know, if you've done your report prior to making your presentation, because that will give more a structure to the presentation that will make your presentation more align with a new report, but if you've done so, please avoid copying and pasting a sentences from your from your
request into the presentation. Okay? Because that makes the slides heavy, and it becomes, you know, difficult for the audience to follow.
So you only need to have some brief statements in a you know.
Declarative language. Okay, rather than like long sentences to stay very.
And then, yeah. And then you need to. You know, verbalize your points in the way that you know it's connected, and it cars well as a whole.
So it's all you know. It's more about, you know they're paying something for the presentation.
So modifying your sentences. So that's more appropriate for the presentation rather than just so sending this phone, you all record, and then please follow.
Like, try to use phone with the appropriate size. So in many cases, I've seen that students, you know, use different phones in their images or in their tables.
And those phones are very tiny, so it cannot be. See, you know, it's all it can barely be read.
So please use, you know. Be consistent with the phone size.
New tables in your figures, and also in response, I can try to always use some readable and large phone size.
And be mindful of user conference. So the user callers should help good billions to, you know, catch the idea or to be, you know, more engaged with this lines.
They should not distract, or, you know, actually create an obstacle for the audience to understand the slides.
So, yeah, so with regard to the visual aids, always trying to use large enough images, large enough tables, and also avoid like complex fears, our complex formulas, it's good to show some develop of formality or some but please do not be too you know, formal okay, because that's going
to impact the, you know understanding. And then, yeah, it's good to label your images and you don't need to just copy images from your reports to your every slide.
So this only, you know, include images where you actually need them.
Okay. And always remember the site images. Then you're actually using image from another usage.
So another major issue that we see is not too many columns.
So the use of call is should be something like the kind of slide that you're saying. So we have some callers.
But at the same time it's like the excessive use of callers right?
And also over a use of capitalism. So I've seen that many of the students, just every word in their sentences, are starting with and Captain, so maybe that can be the case for the title.
But that cannot be the case, for, like the sentences or the points that you were making in the slides.
Who, I think. From the rest, I know that's Youtube.
Just follows lines, just talks about the buddy of the presentation.
The discussion, and conclusion card. So one important things that I wanted to.
Hi Lodge is, yeah. So.
The comparison. Part of the report, and also the comparison.
Part of the presentation. We're trying to come up with a table like this. Okay?
So it shows that first of all, you understand the different specs of every usage that we have covered, and you can compare them together.
Okay, so it shows that, okay, so this group identified, you know, the significant rules.
Understand how they are comparing, and this advantages everyone. So a table like this will help a lot in, you know, showing the comparison between.
And we'll see. I think, that marks the end of this part of the studio. Please take a 10 min. Break.
We'll be here at 4 20 to continue in the second part of the talk to you soon.
Okay, we'll come back. Everyone to the second part of this material.
So in this part, we're going to talk about.
Cool, so we're going to talk about hard disk drives and soft.
So the Ssds sorry.
The same drives and also the memory. Okay, so let's start with the Hdb, so we are going to review quickly south this last from the lecture, and then we'll jump into the first.
So here's the end.
You know, device for storing data in computers. Okay?
So the architecture is very much inspired from classical music instruments.
This is ground phone. So it has a istrator are and a rotating.
This. Okay? And they separate the area on the disk in different ways.
So one way is to separate it. You know the circular areas, small signal areas call it tracks or the other ways.
By that, you know. Pie pieces of the this we call it secors, and then we also call that the tracks on a sector.
We call it track signal. Okay? So the process of bidding from this is like low.
So, in order to notice, for the actors are on to read the from a specific track 6 over, we need to bring the corresponding satellite on there.
The actual on, and then the actual arm can navigate to the tracks it towards the corresponding track sector to read the.com.
Okay. So then there are. If he writes down that this access time for these updates.
The first component will be the rotation, Tom, you can say which is a time required for this to bring the right sector under the actitor are, and then the sick time to the time for the track 6 for and then finally, the time required for transferring all the data from that taxi to all the
way to the processor. Okay?
So, yeah, maybe take a picture. I love this book.
One of this page. Well, also, think about this question as well.
On the same time. So if you really about to improve Http, I mean using the current architecture that you have let's assume that we can add, you know, extra components, I mean out of the same.
You know nature, so you can add this to this for extra.
How would you improve this architecture? Okay, how would you improve this architecture?
And by who I mean reducing that this tax? How would you do that?
Okay.
Think think about this. Now jump into the best. So the first question is about a hardest drive with the average time of 12 ms and a rotation we are 4 ms, and the transfer rate is 4 pounds per second.
So for Simplicity we also assume that 1 MB is equal to 1,000 kilowatts.
So now we have 4 parts. So in the first part we'll see part physical property of the same time, delay in the second part the rotation delay, and then the third part, we want to know with the disk, access time for transfer of size, 8.
Megabytes, and what will be the this access time for transfer?
Wise. Api. Okay, so think on the first 3, and you can send your access to me privately.
Okay, or you can send it to the chat globally.
I mean, both system are okay.
Oh, yeah, but please let's stay on this question for 2 to 3 min.
Everyone. At least a tendency question. It's better to, you know.
Make a you know. Blunder here, and an exam. Because you know here there is no mistake.
Whether that we do wrong. That's part of your learning.
But in the exam, they're actually mistakes defined.
And if you don't, you know.
If you don't like, get the right answer, you will lose some market here.
You will only then more okay. So everyone you can army yourself and talk as well.
Let's stay on this.
We will talk about awesome.
Hey? Any ideas about the first part? What physical property of an HDD. Because it's the sitcom.
Delay any ideas.
I choose your arm. Yes.
Can you be more specific about it?
Need to move to the specific track. Yeah, that's more specific.
Yeah, thanks. What about the physical property of HD, that causes the rotation?
Notation speed. Yeah, that's a clever answer.
But any that's a rotation to the correct set for yes, yes.
Cool. What about the tech? Part? What will be the disk?
Access time for transfer of 8 Millibrons, and also transfer paid 12 bucks.
Any ideas.
So again, we'll look at the this access plan here.
And then what would be the time for transfer?
8 of the month, and also.
Any ideas.
2.0 16 s for 8 and 0 0 17 4.
18 months. Okay? Any. Okay. 2,016 ms.
And what 18 ms. So thank you very much.
Everyone, hey?
Your name. Thank you very much for your inputs. You also got some.
Comes up!
So thank you all for your interactions team.
Okay, so let's jump into the calculations. So for the physical property of an Http seek time, delay.
That's the, you know, create that. The actually their arm moves from positions with required track.
So that's cost because of the current position of the equity arm and the fact that it requires to move to the right track.
And then about the is it all property that cause sanitation today?
So it's got the hey of the I transferred arm. Yeah, okay.
So I think so, yeah, it's, you know, the time needed for the is to bring the rights sector under.
The actors are on, and the fact that the act, the right right sector, is potentially not.
And now this jumping to the calculations. So we know that with this axis time, or the for everybody's sick time plus mutation signals, transfer lines over the right.
So we know that 6 times 12 per second, and the rotation time is 4 ms, and then transfer the lens.
We know it's an 8 but the band's weight it is given to us is 4 MB/s.
Okay, or you can convert it and say.
Can say 4 million by over 1,000. The only subject. Okay.
Because and the rest of the.
The rest of the component of you have done in milliseconds.
Okay. It's also good. If you haven't milliseconds.
So, if you divide 8 square, 4 over 8 ms, it will get 8 over 4.
Milliseconds. Okay? Because this this one from the denominator, and then you will have 2,000 or 2 K.
Milliseconds. Here you'll have 16 s here.
We'll add a few, 2,060 ms, and for the size of 8, 2 lines.
So again, you need to convert 4. It was 4.
Alright was 4. Megabytes, second, one.
So you need to. I'm ready to on qvise, or you need to convert 8 into megawatts.
Okay, so let's convert this one into 2 of us.
So you will say 4 times 1,000.
Okay, where it's 1,000.
Okay? And then you divide 8 point, adds, that will give you.
Nominator, and then you will have 12 plus 4.
Yes, these 2,000 bill eliminate one another, and this is going to be 2.
So all of that together. We'll give you 18.
So compare 2,016 and 18. So this is for hey?
Hey, q. One.
Okay.
Cool any questions here.
Cool. Now let's move into the next one. So.
Just back to this question that I posted view that if you were about to, you know, improve the access time of this architecture what components would you add components of the same nature?
What I choose her on. How would you add new actors on new discs to remove or to reduce the distance?
Any ideas.
Hey! What are the annoying parts of to this it assumes inevitable for this part, so, no matter what you do with the rest, you always need to transfer the data rounded this to the press, right.
So these days seems to be irreducible or inevitable.
What about these 2 parts? Are they also deal with this?
Or how can we reduce that? Maybe you can think of adding more acutor arms?
How would you add more attitude towards reduce the rotations?
Are for. Yeah.
Any ideas.
Yeah. Yeah, will be Michelle. He says, one for each second, and by segment, I think she he means sector.
That's a brilliant answer. So technically, if you add so, one.
One we have for these sake of one, for this 6 h, assume that we have one phone.
He sector. Okay, if you have them, and you have one exclusive on per sector, then probably you no longer need to hmm rotate the disk right?
Because this, actually, their own can move around.
For the tracks right to different track sectors, and we can read that all the check sectors without moving the.
The disk, so that will eliminates the rotation time.
Well, how would you eliminate this? Is it possible to eliminate the seek time as well?
The same logic. Portfolio tracks. Yes, that's right.
So, if you add, you know, even more actuator arms, and this time one actuator on hair track sector.
So pair these pieces, you know these pieces track sector, these pieces of glass, are these pieces of glass?
If you add one actually to on head track sector, then basically, you do not need to move any action to our anymore.
Because Yup, you know, right on top of the track sector.
So whenever you need, that's right. That's actually so we can just call the arm and the all we'll read with also for you, and we'll give it back.
So it will eliminate this part as well. So then you will have Http.
In which you have actuator arms, a number of actors are on equal to the number of tax sectors that you have under this, and you'll not give me a okay, and he will be surprised if you know that this is the actual this is actually the idea that may SSD so SSD
is nothing more than HDD. In which you have Alexander on directly on Track 6, so you can think of these blocks as tractor, and you can think of the bus that is connecting this block to the processor as an actuator on okay it's like the same idea as being used here just
you know, in another form the other name. But that's the same idea right?
And using that idea so you would no longer have any moving parts.
You're getting rid of these 2 components after this fastest time, and you end up having a much faster memory readouts any moving part.
Okay. And this time it will be more faster, will be quieter before not be sensitive.
When in 19 or so. But you know the disadvantages that it's more expensive, and it can be slow when you're doing some of the right. Okay?
Cool. Now let's just get back to the question again.
So the fourth part of the question was asking, What will be the best access time with transfer?
Of 8 MB. And yeah, you can say 8 kB when the transfer rate is formidable.
And since, what's the transfer? Size?
I'm sorry. What is this access time for an SSD and we want to compare it with HD.
Again, 2 to 2, 2 to 3 min to stay on this question, and then we will get back to see your Thomas.
Any ideas.
What is this access plan in here? And how would you compare it to the Http.
2 s she's faster. Thank you. Jenny Bang also says 2,000 ms. Okay.
Okay, so let's quickly check the answer. So no rotation time and seek time on.
SSD, it's that's right. Name. Queue also says, because there's no yeah.
Okay, so thank you for asking that as well.
So let's just put the jump into the answer. It should be a quick one, so we only have transfer lessons in the password, so we know that it's forming a bytes also formula. But with seconds so megabytes can be eliminated together.
So they know. You know, re escaping needed or no, you know.
Conversion, needed so it's only just 2 s right?
And previously we have 2,016 ms for the Kesel Hdv.
Then we were trying to transfer the same size, and you can see the 16 ms difference between the 2.
And for the size of 8 MB. 16 is huge, right?
Because you're transferring.
You know your main Orient, your processor, and you can imagine that's how the project, like in the size of the How will this delay in Hdb.
Will cost, and how we affect the you know, the on the busy access time, and actually the overall experience that you will have with your.
Okay. But even SSD with all its benefits, with all its advantages.
Is that good enough? Okay, so if you take a look at the average average access time that we have for Http and SSD, you will find out that if you want to, you know, transferred about a million of beats it'll take about 2 h.
Hcb. Will take about 1 min with SSD, okay, which is, you know, again, a box, and he's not now huge, because you are just transfering millions and millions of it's between the primary and the process of even SSD will not do the job either if you want
to use. You will experience that lots of latency and delay.
Okay, so how can we solve this issue? How can we come with, you know, some idea that can handle that?
These scenarios, this situation.
Any ideas.
Any ideas here?
Okay. So here's where the ash architecture comes into the picture right so SSD is good, but it's not enough.
So why not? We use like the same idea of SSD, but to build something that is very faster than SSD, okay?
And then it's very fast. It's going to be very more expensive than SSD as well, so we cannot have big chunks of that type of memory.
So we can only have a small like chunk of that.
So, but we see that even because with the user's small like size, very fast memory, we can still have an architecture that has a an overall.
You know, acceptable response time. Okay, so cache is that, and very fast memory.
The logic behind is like sometimes, it's the same, sometimes, you know, it's the logic is the same, but they're a lot more faster, right?
And instead of yeah, we cannot afford to have a main memory of time cash, because that's going to be very expensive, right?
So instead, the that creates like a hierarchy of memory, where they want to disclose it to the processor is the pastor, and as we go far from the cluster, like the memories get so this is still an architecture, only one.
Okay. So so then, what? The overall this access time for that architecture?
So in that case, you know, you either will find it doesn't that you're looking for in the cache.
If you can find it with the publicity of each ratio.
Okay. Times. The access time of the cash.
Okay. And if you don't find your data on the cache, then you go.
You're going to find it under Manueric.
Okay. So we depart of one minus the probability of finding on the cache, which is a history ratio.
You will find it the main memory which for that you need to hey?
The main memory, you know, access time, which is going to be very more than good.
Okay. But again, overall, it's going to be much faster than the case that we only have 10, okay.
So I'm just jumping into what a question to see the difference!
So this question, we are having 2 machines one of the machine has a smaller cache and rate, has small cache.
It has a lower. Its ratio has ratio of 50 cents.
And the other machine has a it's ratio of 90%.
Okay. However, the memory access time of this machine, A and machine B is different.
So the first machine that has a smaller cache has a better memory.
If faster manually, and the other one that has a larger cash has a slower main memory.
Okay, so we want to see which one is going to impact the role this access time.
More? Is it like the? A mayor that's going to impact it more.
Or is it fact that cash? It's going to impact a month?
Okay, so for this, you need to calculate the overall access time of the architecture.
Using the. So maybe you can take a picture of this. Okay?
And then calculated for Host Machine A, and me, comparing which one is to what extent?
And then that can highlights the impact of having a larger cash for a larger memory.
And you can assume that C is also the cache access time.
So let me see. Then we say, the memory access. Time is 100 c. Instead.
It's 10 times is lower than the. So again, 3 to 4 min. Just last question everyone.
Please attend it, and then we'll get back here to see your thoughts.
Okay, thank you very much, Shannon. Thank you for your input.
Any other ideas. I can see this. I/O, yeah. And also it'll be on Michelle. Hey?
The thumbs up with this.
Okay, so maybe let's jump any other let's jump into the calculations.
So for calculating the effective memory access, time of machine, A.
So we know that, for you know, following this, so the 8 ratio is 50%.
So 0 point 5 4 0 point 5 of the time we need to pay for the cash access.
Now would you see? And for the rest, you need to pay for the memory access time, which is 100.
And 60. Okay, and the rest is also one minus 0 point 5, which is, you know, zoom, phone file.
And this could give us 50 points. Okay? And for machine B for 90% of the time we're going to pay for the cache line for the rest of the time we're going to pay for the 400 C, which is the memory access time this will give Us 40.9 okay, so you can
see that machine B is very more, faster.
Okay, highlighting that be good. Cash is going to have a you know.
You know, a higher impact on this under all of, I'm a little effective access time, kinda bigger or better, main memory or faster.
Okay, so cash always is like, is that priority for a machine?
Again, when it comes to cash. So that's the round right.
So that is one of the main configurations of a PC.
And then then you're going to buy it.
So you always take care of that, because take care. Yeah, it shows how fast or machine camping and chooses here. So it doesn't matter if you have a bunch.
You know memory, or if your memory is 2 times faster than another memory, but it matters if you go from, let's say, 8.
You know. 16. Correct. Cool. Now let's just jump into the next part of the tutorial, which is more about different types of databases.
So we start with the classic form of releases. Hmm, in relation to the store data in tables, in tabular form.
So lots of Collins and Rose, and then we have primary key and foreign T, for you know, joining the tables or creating the relation between the cables.
So it's good. Then there are some complex structure around data.
But if you know, if the because it's not that complex, and using this relation tables will only our results and having lots of values which is not ideal.
Okay, so then people came up with like alternative ideas.
One of the alternative ideas.
For hey? Is when the doctor doesn't have that complex.
So new ones to store information about books and albums.
In a database. So instead of creating one table for the books, one table for the albums, one table for the movies, you can just use the key value values.
And the key would be the book Id of the Album Id.
With some product id, and then for the value you can just store, make the information related to that.
Also that movie, etc. So it's like much more easier.
Then then, we have a different storage, which is something in between, you know.
It's like not as rigid as the relational table, not as flexible as the evaluate services.
So it's actually a form of key value that I assume.
In which the value is structured in some way. Okay?
So, instead of having Pm. Value with a value that is totally on a structure totally random.
So you're going to have the value. We have some structure around the value.
So it's suitable for cases when we have, you know, document separate sections, such as books or new, or articles.
You know, they have structure around them, so you can save it, using a different storage.
And finally, we have the clock storage, so in graph storage, you know, the connection between the entities is as important as the entity themselves.
So previously in, for instance, relational tables, the records themselves.
We are aware of high importance, but right now that's only the records, but also the connection into the quotes are also high importance.
So using, you know, by saving the connections, by saving the data, as you know, connection between entities, you can.
Fat. It can be faster, including that queries such as queries are that to do with traversing the relations right queries, such as like, who are the like nearest concept to this concept?
Okay, so think of it. Knowledge graph that you have concepts, entities, and you have connection between concepts.
And then you can get like the similar concepts we're given concept.
But think of a social network which, like the connection, is the friendship between people.
So you want to know who are the second layer friends of this person.
Yeah, this is another form. So now all those things later, 3 time of the basis that we just talked about the key value, the other basis, the document stories, and also you want to talk about just name.
Some of the applications of these, if you can. Maybe 2, 3 min.
And then we'll get back here to see you.
Hey? Ideas! Okay? So that's maybe for a quick look.
So for the applications of key value. Devices are suitable when we do not have complex relational structure under, that's all an example would be shopping for.
So when someone is like viewing a website, they're putting items into a shopping cart that they want to pay for it later.
So instead of you know, creating tables or using other forms, you can just creates an id, a unique id for the.
Clients. And also we can put all of the shopping card into the values, so you can either the user, the application of document storage.
As we mentioned, it's well suited for cases when we have some structure like that's all.
For some sections around the data, such as news articles, books, scientific articles, and the applications for graph.
Databases would be, you know, when connections are of all importance, such as you know, social networks or spatial talent.
Okay, so this concludes, the second part of the scenario, please take a break for 10 min, and then we will get back here 5, 15, to resume and to go to the final part of today's certificate.
Thank you.
Okay, welcome back everyone. So that's a start.
Part 3. So in this part, we're going to talk about startup.
And also crowds. Okay, so let's start with this idea of 12 devices and 12 services.
So previously not 10 years ago. If you were a web developer, then you needed to take care of almost everything on your own.
So you needed to buy a cost for your website. You need to.
If you know you are doing some computation, you know, writing some websites that were doing some computation you needed to.
Hi, ron, you know, container or a virtual machine on your own.
Take care of that, and make sure that it's always running, you know.
Lots of maintenance connections, and all of these stuff, I mean, you know, it was actually a very, you know, hard time for deal with this, because they need to take care of nuts if they're the old.
And they needed to do that all on their own. But nowadays we have the cloud services.
And cloud service providers that they are doing much of this stuff like on their side.
They're doing the dirty work, and they provide you some valuable services.
That you no longer need to pay for the hardware no longer need to pay for the maintenance.
You only need to pay for the service. And it's like a on-device.
Service, so only you need to pay as you go. So you pay for the portion of the service, or for the hours that use the service not anymore.
You don't need to worry about the maintenance.
You don't need to worry about the availability about the hardware requirements, the compatibility of the hardware requirements, the compatibility of the hardware.
Okay. So it's all sorted out by the Cloud providers.
So there are a number of cloud service providers.
Out there 2 of the most you know famous ones are Amazon.
And is your okay. Microsoft is sure. But we are going to review some of the Amazon web services today.
Okay, so Amazon actually offers a wide range of different services from, you know, student services to computing services.
The security services, you know, to machine learning. And you know, computation services.
All of these different type of services are being offered by Amazon.
But we are going to cover 2 types of services today.
So one of the services that we're going to talk about these mutual computers.
Okay. Then you're going to talk about different types of storages, block the storage and also the simple storage.
And also the relational databases. But other types of services, such as no skill.
All of these services are all being offered and provided by Amazon that we are not covering in today's.
Okay. So there's service that we are going to cover or just quickly touch into this scenario is almost on domestic, which is, you know, the scalable computes that, you know. You know, he's also referred as instances.
So you know, it's like some customizable mutual machine that you can use.
Then like video, website. So if you need any sort of you know, always available virtual machine, you can use them.
So the key features of Ec. Tools are the on demand.
Scalability and different types of you know, instances and also advanced security measures.
Yeah, you know, guaranteed availability and seamless, you know, integration with other aws.
Services are some of the features of these on his own, but also very foldable, as you can see, some of them are as cheap as 2 cent.
Per hour. Okay? As I mentioned, one of the features, like their scalability.
So we're like they have some on demand, scalable.
So you can easily scale that. And they're also have good comfort with these.
So there are. They support windows, Linux, free medias and other operating systems. Okay.
Then we have different types of 1,000 storage services. 2 of the most most important ones are almost zoom plastic block storage, and also simple story.
So the difference is that the awesome network storage is like can be used as the physical storage of the piece.
2 instance. Okay, while the s. 3, that is, storage.
It's like more, for you know, general purpose, storage.
So it's if if you want to archive sometimes on there, so you can use a street.
Okay, so that's just jump into the awesome last week to talk about that.
So it's a high performance, you know, without the storage service.
Is designed to work with Ec. Twins. There's almost an elastic compute throughout.
So it provides persistence and doable storage volumes, for that's that can be attached to any Ec.
2 instances, and are used for applications that, you know, requires.
Frequent updates. Okay, not database systems. Okay?
Then we also have the which is, you know, a service that lets you, you know, launch.
Yeah, you know some, you know store that time. It it's.
You know some very cheapest storage with these given to you.
So it's like an object is storage service that offers, you know, industry leading scalability, that availability, security and performance.
It's like more design to store and retrieve any amount of data.
It doesn't work with. Ec. 2 instances but it's ideal for backup and storing data for archiving data, for content distribution and also for database.
You can also maintain it on SAN.
And NAS, that we will also, yeah, talk about that.
That's like, yeah, some type of networks you can use.
We also have the mutual Private Cloud Service on Amazon, which is a service that you know.
You know, help you with running resources that's fully isolated.
Usual network that we can define. So it provides a secure and private environment with the so you can control your reach, are network environment, including, you know, selection of your own IP address, as you can see, creating subnets.
And configurating the, you know, route toggles and network gates based, and so on.
Okay. And finally, we also have the ozone relational, which is a web service that makes makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale or relational database in a cloud.
Okay. So instead of, you know, doing everything on your own inserting it, other base, so you can use the service, you know too much of the things you'll reduce the complexity of setting up and using a database scene.
Almost an environment. Okay?
That was a quick review touch on some of the services of Amazon.
Now let's just jump into the difference. The other is architectures that we have.
So here's a categorization of the D basis.
So we have centralized devices, you know, databases that are, you know, stored in one location.
So first of all, the advantages is that it's easy to use.
It's easy to manage, but at the same time it should not be very easy to scale, because you know, you're storing.
That's only one location of the house of the hardware will be there, and it's not.
Maybe safe to, or maybe I score all of that in one location, so it's capability can be an issue.
Here, then, we have the distributed databases. So the idea is the same as synchronized.
But instead, it's fine. So we are distributing the Delta in different locations.
But all of them are managed by one sensor.
Okay.
So this time scalability is less of an issue. But management of these stataways can be an issue.
So, if not easy to manage, then we have the distributed sorry.
The platform of the databases, which is referred to the old store and the World Wide Web.
So yeah, advantages of this type of databases is that you know other.
You know, owners are taking care of, you know, updating data, putting the data available.
But you know the data there is owned by different owners, and we can think that so there can be some consistency issues, and also some of the availability issues because you have no control over the others.
Yeah, if different online, we have no control on that, then we have the great which is similar to the other basis.
But instead of having a sensor that manages all the interactions between the notes and how the data is saved between the different nodes.
Here we have each node managing its own resources.
Okay. And so the system doesn't act like a single unit.
So every now he's managing its own resources. That's the grid.
Then we have Pto. P which is similar to great, but this time notes can join and leave the network at any time.
So it's like more dynamic type of network.
That sensor networks. Then we have the cloud which is, you know, a generalization of the grid.
But you know the services are like provided by Cloud Provider, and so you can actually, instead of establishing everything on your own, you can just use some on demand services and pay as you go.
So you don't need to pay for the hardware for the maintenance, and it.
Cool. No, let's just quickly jump into.
So please take a picture of the different types of databases that we just.
They can picture in 4, 6, 1, 2, 3, 4, and then it would be the first place, we want to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of different types of delays, architectures for different applications.
Scenarios, so maybe you can come up with some application scenario for each of these devices, and then also talked about the disadvantages and advantages of these.
Maybe 4 to 5 min to stay on this question, so I encourage everyone.
To engage and attempt this question.
Then we'll get back here to see your talks.
Okay, welcome back everyone. So any ideas whether the advantages and disadvantages of different type of databases that we discussed.
And also.
Okay? So I can see the billing also adds, there are some column based useful applications.
So, yeah, so they may have many applications in okay, especially when you know the other consists of many columns, and only a small substance is relevant to the most queries.
Okay.
Or like real time and all it takes can be another application.
Internet of things.
No old, these type of application, but the 3 type of databases that we are.
So I think about our t-value document storage and graph not releases.
Oh, I'm sorry! This was for the previous question. Yeah.
So here we have centralized. This could be jumping to the answer so centralized is suitable for simple applications.
When it's easy to manage, you know, and the disadvantage of centralized, as we mentioned before, is that it's not scalable that much.
Then we have distributed. So the scalability is better is suitable, for you know, large scale applications, but you know the problem is with system administration and cost recovery.
As it's like this administration requires lots of resources.
That's a budget, and you may also end up having some inconsistency even that you are storing that at different locations.
And we have to. It is very convenient for you to access and share data, because you're not.
Worrying about, you know, making the Delta available that has some, you know, owners, other owners.
So you can just access the Delta and share it.
But there will be some security issues and also no guarantee on availability or consistency.
Okay. And we have the great type of databases there are less use nowadays.
Yeah, very similar to distributed. Just the administration is done locally, at which corner then, we have the p. 2 p.
Which is like similar to the grid, only you know the network to topology or network structure is more dynamic.
So that will actually shouldn't be planned in advance or can be planning advanced, and notes can come and leave at any time.
An example would be sensor networks or mobile, since it looks and then we have the cloud databases which are on demand resources.
Now provided by account Proider. It's very cost effective.
The maintenance is low maintenance, you know, there's actually no maintenance cost per user.
Maintenance is done by the Cloud Provider, but they can be some privacy and confidentiality issue.
Given that you are storing your data on someone else's premises.
You know they can access data. However, most of the trusted providers actually address the security and privacy, and also confidentiality issues.
Very well. Okay. Given all this information about different types of databases, their advantages, advantages, and applications.
This is John into this question. So we have a scenario which we have.
This company called Friend Book.
Which is a startup that will launch its operation soon.
We have one office, not much budgets, but they expect a high growth in scale of millions in future.
Okay, you want to know. We check the following, Delaware is suitable for this. Now.
Okay.
Maybe 2 to 3 min in this question. Any ideas?
Okay, so a lot of people are saying, Well, for, hey? How you go?
Well, by.
Me show host saying, a we share, hey? And journey plastic for scalable anytime.
Okay, so tell me why centralized database is not an option.
Yeah.
Scalability problem cannot scale. Yes, Min Shan, thank you for your contribution, and really as well.
Yes, still will be easy. What about the distributed database while you kind of use the.
Yes, everyone false tolerance. What to see you then you mean.
What else for distributed delays? Why, we are not using zoom database anyone else.
In. It's expensive. Yes, really lead. So there's saying that, hey?
Haven't limited budgets, and setting up a is actually very expensive.
You know you can eventually deal with the issues if you have enough money, you can set someone at the, you know, or a team at the, you know, network administrators.
They can take care of the consistency issues. But all of that needs money.
Right, and since they don't have that money so they can't close the section, what about the old wiper?
What about that?
Security yes, security issues not good for logging. Yeah. Okay?
Oh, yes, security issues, main thing, and also consistency in availability.
You can also say that that's also an issue. Okay, the Cloud service appears to be the best option here.
Now let's go to Scenario V. So we have friend book, which is now a usual network sites.
That's on real launch. It's operation soon, hey?
They have offices in many major cities of U.S.A. They need a database that can handle millions of users across the know for presenting, for preserving privacy and security.
They need their own data sort system which is not shared or owned by any other company.
Which is the following, is suitable.
Any ideas.
So everyone is saying, C. Lots of Cs coming. Thank you very much.
Everyone for your contributions. Why do you think? Yeah, again, more. See?
So why do you think a is not the answer? Y. 12.
It's not their own. Yes, privacy issues, confidentiality issues.
Yes, managed by third party, not shared his privacy.
All of that is right. So we are not using central lines because of the same reason that we were not using centralized before.
And we were not using because of the same reason that we were not using before, so that the only reason would be okay.
Thanks everyone for coming to today. This concludes today's tutorial.
Thank you very much for your contributions. Good to see you next week in this detail.
Have a great evening and goodbye.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks.
Thank you. Thank you.
From the people in the room. Do you have any questions?
Any questions from the people in the room or not.
Any questions from people in the room.
You hang, you are!
Any questions?
Any questions, guys.
You'll hang zoom, Uma, do you have any questions?
Do you have any questions?
Any questions you hang. Zhu!
Hey! Hello! There!
You haven't. Do you have any questions?